# Setup Guide

This guide assumes you have a [HubSpot](https://www.hubspot.com) account already.

<span class="note warning"><b>Important:</b> This is a complete integration between Freeform and HubSpot and should NOT be used along with <a href="https://knowledge.hubspot.com/forms/use-non-hubspot-forms">HubSpot's "Collected Forms" javascript-based feature</a>. Otherwise, you may observe unintended behavior.</span>

## Compatibility

Uses OAuth flow on `v1` of the REST API.

### Endpoints
Maps data to the following endpoints:

- **Deals**
- **Contacts**
- **Companies**

### Fields
Maps data to the following field types (of text/number string type only):

- **Standard**
- **Custom**

## Duplicate Check & Update

A duplicate check on records is done in the following way:

1. Check whether the *Contact* already exists:
    - Check against **Email address** as the identifier.
    - If there's a match, update the *Contact* with new values, where supplied.
    - If no match, create a new HubSpot *Contact*.
2. Check whether the *Company* already exists:
    - Check against **Company domain name**, which is automatically generated by HubSpot from the *Contact* email address domain name.
    - If there's a match, update the *Company* with new values, where supplied.
    - If no match, create a new HubSpot *Company*.
    - If a new *Contact* was created, link the contact to the *Company*.
3. Create new *Deal*.
    - Attach the *Deal* to existing or newly created HubSpot *Company* and *Contact*.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Prepare Freeform's end for Integration

- Select *HubSpot (v1)* from the **Service Provider** select dropdown.
- Enter a name and handle for the integration. e.g. `My HubSpot Integration`
- Copy the URL value generated in the **OAuth 2.0 Return URI** field, e.g. `https://mysite.net/admin/freeform/oauth/authorize`.
- Leave this page open and open a new tab to go to the HubSpot Developer site...

### 2. Prepare HubSpot's end for Integration

- Open another browser tab to create an app on the [HubSpot Developer website](https://app.hubspot.com/signup/developers/).
    - HubSpot allows you to create the developer account with your existing HubSpot account, so you can follow the steps to do that.
- On the next page, click the **Create an app** button, and then choose **Private** app.
- You will be taken to a page where you will need to fill out some details:
    - Enter a name for the app in the **Public app name** field.
    - Switch to the **Auth** tab and scroll down a bit:
        - For the **Redirect URLs** setting, paste the value from the **OAuth 2.0 Return URI** field in Freeform's settings for the integration.
        - For the **Scopes** area, select the following under the **CRM** section:
            CRM | Read | Write
            --- | --- | ---
            `crm.objects.companies` | ✓ | ✓
            `crm.objects.contacts` | ✓ | ✓
            `crm.objects.deals` | ✓ | ✓
- Click the **Create app** button at the bottom left.
- After the app saves and reloads the page, click on the **Auth** tab.
    - Copy the following credentials:
        - **App ID**
        - **Client ID**
        - **Client Secret**

### 3. Continue the Integration on your site

- Flip back to the Freeform CP browser tab.
- Paste the HubSpot **App ID** value into the **App ID** field in Freeform.
- Paste the HubSpot **Client ID** value into the **Client ID** field in Freeform.
- Paste the HubSpot **Client Secret** value into the **Client Secret** field in Freeform.

### 4. Additional Configuration

- **IP Address Field** (optional)
    - If you want to have the user's IP address sent over to the Contact in HubSpot, you can specify the custom HubSpot Contact field handle to receive it.
- **Append checkboxes field values on Contact update?**
    - If a Contact already exists in HubSpot, enabling this will append additional checkboxes field values to the Contact inside HubSpot, instead of overwriting the options.
- **Append checkboxes field values on Company update?**
    - If a Company already exists in HubSpot, enabling this will append additional checkboxes field values to the Company inside HubSpot, instead of overwriting the options.

### 5. Finish the Integration

- Click the **Save** button.
- You will be redirected to a HubSpot OAuth page to allow permissions.
    - If not currently logged in, fill in your credentials.
    - Choose the account that should be connected and click **Allow** when asked for permissions.
- You will then be redirected back to the **Freeform CRM Integration** page.

### 6. Verify Authorization

- After the integration is saved, it'll return you to the list of CRM integrations.
- Click into the newly created integration.
- Confirm that there is green circle with **Authorized** in the middle of the page.

### 7. Configure the Form

To use this integration on your form(s), you'll need to configure each form individually.

- Visit the form inside the form builder.
- Click on the **Integrations** tab.
- Click on **HubSpot** in the list of available integrations.
- On the right side of the page:
    - Enable the integration.
    - Select the API endpoints you wish to map to.
    - Map Freeform fields to the HubSpot fields as needed.

<style type="text/css">.warning {display:block;padding:10px 15px;border:1px solid var(--warning-color);border-radius:5px;}</style>